#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Curious Minds
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
By: no relevance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dedicated to al l who have not been given enough chances to succeed and
 to a night in 'the Kings' on Friday 11th March 1983
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Thanks to all of those who gave me a chance to possibly fail again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapterprecis
A story of art, maths, art, physiology, science etc.
 in a single collection known as knowledge.
 A story of questions with no answer, a story of answers which question
 current knowledge and mostly a story of hope, hope that we can really and
 truly ask large questions of small issues.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part
Basic Schooling
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In school, like many others I had to learn arithmetic, how to add and subtract
 and when this has been achieved then teachers go further and teach us times
 tables.
 There are even songs about times tables like the poems and songs used to
 teach the alphabet.
 Then there is English (or whatever your language is) or literature (it's
 called English in Scotland).
 In these classes you learn to read at an early age which is great.
 Of course art and music are also taught and here teachers let us draw with
 crayons or watercolour paints, sing and generally be creative.
 In not one of these classes was I never shown why we do all this stuff,
 as with foreign language or science, religion etc.
 In School I was taught like others to repeat and the best got certificates.
 I am not saying this is bad to receive certificates for regurgitating informati
on, although I am not sure it deserves al l the respect of the system.
 the kids who ask why, usually received reports with could do better , often
 loses attention or easily distracted .
 I was similar to the latter in primary School, but was, at least initially,
 relatively quiet as I was taught to not speak unless being spoken to and
 sit nice and don't be bad.
 It was obvious questions and in particular debate was being bad, and, yes,
 I was belted often in later years in primary school!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I wonder how many others recognise this story as similar to their own or
 very similar to what they encountered.
 It is later in life I realised that the education of a child is of paramount
 importance and perhaps mass education is not quite working as we thought
 it should.
 I have to be careful here and allow the reader to recognise I am 100% committed
 to education, but with the caveat that teaching repeating tasks or theorems
 etc.
 is not, in my opinion, a complete education.
 I am not impressed by people who can recite large texts or numbers (Pi
 etc.) off by heart, my dicta-phone can do that, it's not that clever.
 I am also unlikely to be impressed by a child remembering all the times
 tables all the way up to 12 times 12 and I do not think that deserves certifica
tes and honours at early ages (actually honours do not impress me at all
 either, but that's completely another matter).
 I agree completely with rewarding and making kids feel special and interesting,
 it's a good start but a better way is to reward creativity in all areas
 and this is difficult, but then again should teaching be easy ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before continuing we must recognise something important.
 The vast majority of people can get through life admirably and very successfull
y with the basic tools of early education (reading, writing and arithmetic),
 in fact arguably in most cases this is more than adequate.
 This perhaps should be an area that is hived out to an elementary level
 and yes, a recondition in this area is probably important.
 Also the recondition of asking questions is becoming more acceptable and
 even encouraged now in schools, as I have been reliably informed so this
 is progress and very welcome.
 One area that has been an issue and still is though is the creative side
 of children, we seem to knock that out of them in the push for this elementary
 education and that's a terrible crime.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's also worth noting that this early stage mass education for the masses
 only works to an extent (a very limited extent).
 I say extent as it does not seem clear that the education by batches of
 ages is very clever or indeed the industrial conveyor belt approach is
 at all beneficial to anyone.
 In any case we can assume some good comes of it, although perhaps in a
 sloppy and uncaring way in many cases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now imagine for a moment a situation where early schooling was teaching
 more why rather than how ! By this I mean start with why ? then teach a
 method (and also reiterate it's only one method) of how to achieve this.
 I prefer several methods of how, but that requires a level of questioning
 that is perhaps too abstract for some of today's teachers (I do not mean
 this in any derogatory way), but I bet the really dedicated would also
 love to learn some of the answers as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If I were a teacher, I would hope I would relish the days every year when
 the first student of any age challenged me to a question I did not know
 (never mind the answer, like what does this God look like or where did
 we come from type questions).
 Even better if a student showed me a different method of existing thinking,
 a method I had not realised or seen before.
 Now that would be magnificent.
 I fear this is not the attitude I recognise as being fully accepted from
 my own schooling (there are a lot of genius teachers out there though)
 and surprisingly as I will outline later, this acceptance of difference
 is less tolerated in later years at college.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.1.
 Some teaching ideas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK! So what do I mean by all this gibberish ? Well it would appear that
 teaching addition and subtraction are relatively easy to explain.
 I have one apple and get another so I have one + one = 2 apples (more later).
 If I remove one then I have 2 minus 1 = 1 apple.
 There it works! That's one method for addition and subtraction that we
 can all teach children and do so from an early age.
 So what about the next steps multiplication and division ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These are just as simple as addition and subtraction but we make them extremely
 difficult by teaching patterns and rhymes and times table songs and lose
 children's interest in an amazing subject very early in their formative
 years.
 For the repeaters this method of teaching we use is great, for the thinkers
 and potential genius's well, we may lose them at this crucial stage, unless
 you have a good recall then what we call (incorrectly at this stage) maths
 becomes difficult straight away.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To compound this we have parents, the initial yardstick of how well we are
 doing and source of comfort to us, the people we most want to please.
 How do they t in? Well they reward us for remembering times tables and
 scold us for not remembering, saying s/he is not good at maths (considering
 s/he has not being doing maths, then this is quite a statement).
 This is, to me, amazing! We would be as well kicking children in the face
 and congratulating them for not bleeding too soon!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So how can we teach a better or at least different, why ? This is actually
 easy in principle, to teach addition you could say something like, I have
 2 screw-holes and
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
OUTSIDE THE BOX
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I need to screw a screw (hmm! verb == noun) into each screw-hole so I need
 1 plus 1 screw.
 There that's why we need to learn to add.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So continuing, say you were handed 3 screws for this job children.
 Now we need to remove one screw to make 2 which is the amount we need.
 So simply throw one screw away (or subtract it) and we have again 2 screws,
 perfect for the job.
 Many such examples teach a why ! and in this case it is very difficult
 to separate the why from the how as it is relatively simple to add and
 subtract.
 This is an example of how using addition you can also subtract.
 By adding the number of screws you remove from the pile (of 3) then you
 add again the original pile (now 2) and add to the pile you removed (1).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So subtraction can be done using only addition! what about multiplying?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well this is easy 5 times 3 (or multiplied by) is 5 + 5 (multiplied by 2
 now) +5 and that's us multiplied 5 by 3, 5 + 5 + 5 now again use only addition
 to get the answer 15!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So multiplication can be done using addition! what about division?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
lets reverse the above example and This is a tiny (very small) bit more
 difficult.
 say what is 15 divided by 5? so here we start with 15 screws and remove
 5 from it, there's still some left so again take screws one at a time adding
 them up to 5, we still have some left so again removing one at a time and
 adding to 5, then the amazing thing, we have none left from our original
 bundle, and we did this 3 times, therefore the answer is 3.
 15 divided by 5 can be done by removing groups of 5 till the pile is empty
 and this can be done exactly 3 times, wow !.
 This means an elementary school kid who can add, can also subtract, multiply
 and divide, without any additional rules or mechanisms over and above simple
 addition and guess what? no remembering tables yet.
 We can cover remainders and fractions in a couple of minutes, there terrificall
y easy too (maybe easier than this so far).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.2.
 Outside the box
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here is an interesting exercise, count your fingers, yes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
 9 10, great so we can count to 10 (use one hand a count to 5 if its easier).
 Now did we count to 10 or did we miss a number? this is a much more signicant
 question and one that confounded and caused great consternation for many
 hundreds of years so the question is very difficult indeed.
 In today's mathematical world we did miss something.
 Let me explain hold up 2 fingers one hand and we will subtract 2 from it
 (don't jump to conclusions here!) so on one hand put down 1 finger (you
 can hold up one finger on the other hand to use our subtract by addition
 method, as one finger on one hand is put down, then hold up a finger on
 the other hand).
 Now put down another finger, so we subtracted 2 from the first hand (some
 of us know because we have 2 fingers held up on the other hand and can
 count to 2).
 So we have how many left? when we counted our fingers there was 10 of them
 (if you count thumbs as fingers, for the pedantic).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So how many now? none you say excitedly none so the answer is none (which
 is accurate), but in maths today we call nothing, something, we call it
 zero (or nought or nothing).
 So what's the answer? is it zero? we did not have zero fingers, we started
 counting at 1 (again stay with me), otherwise starting at zero would give
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
8
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
us 9 fingers (try it), this is shown by simply counting backwards on your
 fingers, so on one hand 10,9,8,7,6 (one hand gone) and we have still ve
 fingers on the other hand, what 5 + 6 = 11 (told you not to be so hasty).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So if we start counting at 0 we have 9 fingers, or if we count back from
 10, we have 11 fingers, think about this for a while, it will help you
 understand some more of maths than you imagine.
 Now revisit the subtracting by adding this does not occur (you add the
 numbers you remove so 5, therefore 5 + 5 left = 10, were you hasty?).
 So to start at zero is a bit crazy, after all zero what? fingers? cars?
 blades of grass? but if zero is a number then why not start there?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So is 0 actually a number? is 2 - 2 a number or is it actually nothing,
 not a number just nothing? we will come back to this (bet you can't wait).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.3.
 Far outside the box
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Counting as in the previous passage is rather easy and we can see it clearly.
 What about the alternatives or differing approaches, are there any? An
 interesting thing is that we are taught to read left to right and do so
 almost automatically.
 Why then do we count right to left, it all seems so easy and natural, but
 it gives us limitations almost immediately.
 for instance, how can we add a number to an irrational number (a number
 when written in decimal approaches infinity, or maybe does, but we cannot
 get to the end of it like pi or the square root of two).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well the good news is we can add such numbers together and quiet easily
 actually.
 Instead of adding for instance left to right as normal we can do it the
 other way round.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1234 + 4567 =? Normally we would carry out this task right to left like
 7+4=1 carry 1, then 3+6(+ carry 1) = 0 carry 1, then 2+5+1 = 8 and nally
 1+4 = 5, so answer is 5801 (you will note we answer backwards although
 ignore that naturally).
 What if instead though the problem was 1234 .
 .
 .
 + 4567 .
 .
 .
 =? (the ...
 meaning, onwards towards infinity), this introduces an important issue
 as we cannot go to the right hand number, because we cannot reach infinity
 to find it.
 Is our system broken then? well only if we stay in the box and think for
 a second that the mechanical teaching we have had is all there is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The answer is so simple that it's not even funny, importantly doing this
 exercise in junior school would probably mean you failed the test as your
 working would be wrong, even though the answer is correct.
 Let us demonstrate this wrong method now.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In steps, first part (left to right) is 1+4=5, next part is 2+5=7, next
 part is 6+3=9 and last part (the trickier part) is 7+4 = 1 and this time
 we carry 1 backwards so our previous 9 becomes 10 or zero and carry backwards
 again so the second thought becomes 7+1 or 8.
 so the answer (read forward this time) is 5801...
 and the numbers go on to infinity if we so desire.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we then try a trickier version 9235+1986 =?in this case the answer is
 9+1=0 carry 1 back.
 We note here there is no back so we add an extra digit to the beginning
 so for the first number we now have 10.
 Then we have 9+2=1 carry 1 backwards so then we have 111 so far.
 Then 3+8=1 carry 1, so we have 1121 so far then 6+5=1 carry 1 so we have
 the answer 11221...
 Which works, but importantly we have
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.4.
 MORE QUESTIONS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
9
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
started a system where if we find another new number in our series then
 we're set up with the thinking that would allow us to continue the process,
 even when the carry back carries back several times, perhaps even to the
 beginning of the number.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I hope by now questions are starting to fester away and if there not, they
 should be! To think we have not got to religious studies yet!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.4.
 More questions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So now! do we teach the tables and rhymes ? absolutely not, what a terrible
 idea, now the teacher has to talk about all this and see what clever ideas
 the kids can come up with, now they have a new skill.
 Time to play about, do you want 6 minus 3 sweets or 6 divided by three
 sweets ? If you cut a card till a bit falls o, how many pieces are there
 (does a card have a limit of cuts in it?)? Now ask, If I write a number
 on the board with this small piece of chalk and then another and then another
 and so on (actually do it!) can you see the chalks getting smaller, so
 how many numbers are in the chalk? If I keep speaking and don't eat or
 drink how many words are inside me? will all my words run out? let the
 kids discuss and talk crazy till they run out of crazy and start evaluating
 the answers properly, watch for the crazier kids and encourage this (probably
 at back of class with lots of energy and devilment, or at the front and
 very quiet).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now some other subjects can be tackled the same way, boil a kettle dry and
 ask the kids where all the water is? Look at the heat waves coming o a
 radiator, ask the kids what it is (open the window and ask if anyone can
 see the heat escaping).
 Ask kids what the heat waves above a road are and they will be amazed when
 you tell them the heat waves are the sky1 ! (maybe you will be to).
 Then discuss the heat waves and say to a child, they can put there hand
 half in the hot air and half in the colder air just at the edge of these
 waves.
 An adaptation of this is look at wind on the sea or loch, there is an end
 to it in the plane of the water, therefore you must be able to put your
 hand part in a wind and part out of it, it does end.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now we can explain some more phenomena, these heat waves are actually causing
 some light air to rise2, therefore sucking air from a heat source and sending
 it up higher.
 So the air must be getting apparently pulled in from below this heat wave,
 pulled from all around it and pushed upwards.
 Easy !
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1This is a subject discussed by Richard P Feynman during talks on the subject
 of quantum electrodynamics, where light passing through hot air can refract
 (or bend, wow big debate, it's actually taking the fastest route) showing
 heat haze on a road is the sky to.
 I wont waste a good book, buy it (QED).
 2This is also untrue.
 The hot air does not necessarily rise, it stays where it is, the heat increases
 the pressure if the area is conned, in this case it's not so the heat spreads
 apart the air molecules and the cooler air brings them together (or allows
 the mass attraction to take over), the air neither rises or falls, simply
 the pressure differs.
 This is another example misstated in many subjects, including physics.
 The hot stuff rises, what nonsense! The heat rises to reach the lesser
 pressure area, the stuff stays where it is relatively speaking, or does
 it? Keep thinking! As a molecule heats it will go in all directions, rising
 to a lesser pressure is the most efficient escape route in reality, therefore
 heated molecules may seem to rise as they bash against their partners,
 but in doing so they heat their partners also.
 It's a very interesting subject for another whole book.
 Basically how much stuff rises is somewhat inversely proportional to the
 transfer of heat capability the stuff possesses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
10
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is creating a pressure gradient in fact, this is explained now.
 The pressure at the bottom is low as stuff is being pushed up so it's not
 weighing on us now, it would feel lighter standing at this point as it's
 as though were being lifted (ever so slightly).
 Try it put a feather there and watch it rise.
 Now discuss hand gliders and birds soaring on thermals.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So then we can expand, if there is a low pressure here, then it must be
 causing a higher pressure above as this is where we are pushing the stuff
 to (air).
 This makes sense, I hope.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interestingly though if we expand this thinking we must be sucking air sideways
 towards the point of the heat (that radiator in the class), so we are creating
 an even higher pressure at the side of the heat source.
 So as we push air up and suck it in sideways the air we push up, cools
 and falls down again to be sucked into the heat source again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This explains the beginnings of understanding worldwide weather systems,
 and winds or pressure gradients as they are confusingly called.
 It's a simple matter of a heat source pushing hot air up, sucking the same
 (or in some places nearby) air back in from below as it cools.
 This is a great thing to teach a child.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now you can show the child some tricks in nature.
 As he or she can put their hand in the heat source part way they can also
 put their hand in rain part way.
 So you can have rain falling on part of you only, or on half of your house.
 How so?.
 Well it's simple now if we bring all this together.
 If the heat source is near water it heats the water, evaporating that and
 mixing it with hot air and lifting it up.
 As it rises it cools, as we already know, and in doing so forms clouds
 which is simply all the previously hotter water getting cooler and again
 coming back closer together, thus forming larger water concentrations,
 until it's mass is greater than the force exerted upon it by the heat (Brownian
 motion) and it falls.
 Interestingly though as the water falls in spheres the bottom part of the
 sphere is closer to the earth and is pulled by gravity more, The outer
 edges spread out though due to the air resistance pushing on the bottom
 part of the sphere (which is stronger than the gravitational force) and
 the sphere splits into smaller spheres (increasingly slower though), this
 continues until they hit the ground.
 These clouds become heavy as they cool and cannot hold together as steam
 or vapour any more and form water, as water cannot oat in normal air, it
 falls down, as rain.
 The clouds have an edge and part of this divide is wet and the other is
 dry.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now children can put all that together and realise why deserts have heat
 but not much rain and seaside places tend to be wet, especially in summer
 as the land heats faster than the water and sucks the sea vapour towards
 beaches as it pushes the hot air up, which cools and forms clouds.
 This is called a sea breeze and explains the thin clouds round the coasts
 in summer (have you ever wondered why there are clouds at the seaside on
 a sunny day), and also the relaxing breeze we feel in hot summer afternoons
 at the beach.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now we can teach people about gravity! and we should be clear here, we never
 teach people gravity, even our best scientists can only guess at it, in
 fact Newton was embarrassed by it and Einstein theorised about it.
 We have no clue what gravity is.
 We can, however, explain the effects of gravity localised to our little
 spot in the universe, and we do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.5.
 NATURE
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
11
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When kids are told of this phenomenon it's confusing and so well it should
 be, we wrap a thing around it call it a force and leave it at that, but
 we are so wrong! Anyway as we nd out the earth is spinning many children
 will say things like if I jump up will I land in another place ? or leave
 the brake of the car and let it drive around backwards to the direction
 of the earth's spin (I certainly did and still wonder) using no fuel ?
 We tell them gravity stops that and pulls us straight back down or the
 car is stuck to the ground too hard due to gravity that it will not move
 with the brake o, if on a straight or level road.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, we do not tell the whole picture, as the earth turns it does affect
 things as a child would imagine (and we stop them thinking this, what a
 shame!).
 As the earth turns the air we pushed up, or air in the upper atmosphere
 is moved from the location it left earth from (slightly).
 Gravity has a lesser eect on water vapour (well actually its overcome with
 heat rising) and the place where the air is pushed is backwards from the
 point where it left the ground source (as the earth turns below it).
 This is again confusingly named the Coriolis eect.
 We need to let children know their original assumptions about the turning
 planet are true.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children believe gravity is such an amazingly powerful force when they are
 young, to be told later, it is the weakest of all forces known? why do
 we do that?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another interesting factoid here is that if you jump out a 7th story window
 the earth moves up to meet you with a proportional force that you fall
 to meet it.
 This is the force or measure of force we call momentum, which is actually
 velocity multiplied by mass, relatively the velocity the earth meets you
 at is proportional to the speed you meet it at.
 The proportion is the mass of the earth compared to you.
 Weird but true, now discuss!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.5.
 Nature
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nature is the most important thing to teach kids and yet it is ignored,
 kids may look out a window at some grass and tree's or a bird making a
 nest and what do teachers do, well your in trouble now kid! This is school
 ! no looking at nature.
 This is the best time to teach a child, what are you looking at ? grass,
 oh so what can you tell me about grass? (people depended on the spread
 of grass, we would still be in Africa if it were not for grass, assuming
 we did all migrate from there).
 There's loads of things to learn from grass (try to destroy it by burning,
 drowning etc.) or investigating birds or trees, in fact everywhere in nature.
 There are more unknown organisms in a single square meter of a common garden
 than the total number of known organisms identified buy humans to date,
 we can observe nature for many years to come, before we can consider ourselves
 even to have an infantile knowledge of the world around us.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now put a small plant or bush in a pot, one which will grow fairly large
 in a few months, we will come back to this.
 Water and feed it and explain what's happening all the time you do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So nature is life's textbook, always changing, never the same twice and
 always fascinating, all aspects from the shape of clouds and all you can
 teach about that, to a rock that seems to never alter, cosmic rays, heat,
 cold, wet, dry, you bet it alters (later photons smashing into it throwing
 electrons off back into photons when they hit air again, oh the list is
 never ending).
 Important to note here that like the
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
12
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
times tables and rhymes for teaching 'times tables' it is important NOT
 to teach all different names for stuff in nature but teach what things
 actually are, what they are made of, how they interact with other 'things'
 and importantly how there all different, even 2 birds of the same family
 or breed are completely different, as people are.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now some more interesting observations for children, when they look at,
 say a rock or better a bird that flies away.
 Now ask where is the bird? is it gone? or is some of it left ? Ask each
 of the children what they remember about the bird, some may say it had
 wings, others, it was black, had a beak etc.
 Now discuss why they can remember what it looks like and if it's really
 gone what bit of it got in our head ? and if it looked at us, is a bit
 of us in it's head ? is a bit of us flying and soaring through the sky
 chirping and freely soaring in currents of some of that warm air ripple.
 Now you may remember the bird your whole life, many years after it's not
 a bird any more in the world outside your window, but is it a bird still
 in your head? your head is made of matter and that birds impression takes
 up a piece of that matter (perhaps) so is it alive, in you? These lessons
 may start to become interesting to teachers as well now.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What can nature not teach us? when you think of something then don't teach
 kids that thing (as your very likely wrong).
 Use nature always and when teaching if you cannot reference a natural issue
 to depict your notion of the piece of knowledge your about to impart, simply
 don't.
 This is fairly easy as everything we do is defined by nature, even the
 unnatural things ! It's just important to think about it (like dividing
 by adding !).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK back to the bush we planted, have the kids look at it and especially
 look at the amount of dirt in the pot.
 The amount is the same as when the thing was planted, but wait the thing
 is much bigger, where did all the stuff come from ? where did the mass
 of stuff that's there now, leaves, possibly flowers, more stalk or bark,
 lots of stuff and it all weighs something.
 It never came from the dirt, the dirt is still in the pot! what happened.
 Well all the stuff came from the air (vast majority, some plants have lots
 of water content, but dry a tree out and it's still lots of stuff ) now
 is the time to talk of chloroform and photosynthesis not in years to come,
 now when the kids can actually see what happened even if they can never
 understand how they will always remember what happened and what photosynthesis
 does, it takes air and sunlight and turns it into carbon, same stuff as
 inside us is now inside the plant.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now talk about kids eating less than their parents but growing faster and
 when they eat the same the kid still grows, so how's that?, why don't the
 parents keep growing, where's the bones and skin all coming from, again
 how is may be not so important here but what actually happens is very easy
 to show.
 If they don't understand all the complicated maths and science behind this
 they will and should understand what the outcome is, being able to prove
 it now should seem less of an issue.
 It's easier to prove things you can see and touch, hear feel etc.
 than some absurd equation or huge Latin word from a book.
 Nature is proving to be very helpful now I hope!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.6.
 THE ZERO INFINITY THING AGAIN
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
13
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.6.
 The zero infinity thing again
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Zero, nothing, void, empty and so on, zero what ? are zero skyscrapers equal
 to zero fingers, are innite3 skyscrapers equal to infinite fingers ? well
 the latter is wrong you can enter a skyscraper and go into a room, can't
 do that with a finger, no matter how many you have, but the former would
 appear to be true! So zero being the opposite size (or dimension) of infinity
 is not true ! but there are interesting effects on one another 0 ∗ ∞ =
 0 and ∞ ∗ (any number except 0) = ∞ and 0/∞ = 0 and ∞/0 = U undefined
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is interesting if you analyse it.
 So infinity can be destroyed or created by zero! Really interesting is
 the undefended cases, undefended! yes in the simplest equation, never mind
 Reinman's zeta function based problem or Fermat's last theorem, simply
 infinity and zero together are enough to confound mathematics.
 Are we not all taught that in School? I wasn't!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perhaps you would not have been taught that the proof of 1+1=2 has never
 been mathematically proven! Two mathematicians, Russel and Whitehead wrote
 over 300 pages in the book principia mathematica where this proof was attempted
, but failed to do so (Godel showed the laws in what was thought to be a
 proof of this as he introduced his incompleteness theorem).
 Again there is a lot we are not taught, why?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If zero is a number is it on your calculator ? is infinity then also on
 your calculator and if not why not ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sorry if that's now confusing but it's actually simple and expected, first
 of, none of the above answers are infinity or zero, the answers tend towards
 these numbers but will never get there.
 So zero and infinity are destinations a traveller can journey towards but
 in many cases, alas never reach.
 Therefore if somebody asks how long will it take to count to infinity you
 could reply I will finish tomorrow as this would be true every time you
 say it (as long as you say it at least daily).
 but to count to zero on the other hand can be done very quickly, but only
 if we can assume 1 is a number and can be proven! oh dear this is madness
 is it not.
 What do we mean can we prove there is such a thing as 1.
 Perhaps it's easier to just do the repeating thing and get a certificate
 after all, is it not? Simple thing here is to write 1/3 as a decimal, 0.333...,
 now multiply by 3 to get 0.999....
 Oh oh this is not 1.
 More soon! We need to consider time and space to understand there may be
 a 1, but only a 1 there cannot be two 1's and we cannot really define a
 1 unless we can freeze time! Yes this is true, are you clutching your arithmeti
c certificate yet and saying this is wrong, this is wrong over and over
 again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well actually it's not madness it very much depends on the way you try to
 get to zero, for instance if you half a number every time, you will never
 get there, so these
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3I remember being told as a child by a teacher, infinity is defined as such:
 if you give a monkey a typewriter and infinity it will type out the complete
 works of shake spear word perfect.
 I immediately thought the ribbon (for younger folk the ribbon is the old
 mechanical printers version of a print cartridge) would run out, and then
 the paper would run out so given this infinity with infinite objects does
 not work, there's many infinities in this definition, like number of trees
 (therefore planets and universes), spare parts, tools for the spare parts
 etc.
 etc.
 in fact to me this definition was one of many and possibly infinite infinities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
14
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
real numbers or integers (or whole numbers) are very handy as you can remove
 real positive integers from another positive integer one at a time till
 zero appears, but again they're approximations and no such thing exists
 as I will prove later (mathematics is full of notions and real numbers
 one of them).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So back to the zero thing.
 For thousands of years it did not exist along with it's partner (which
 we have shown to be strange bedfellows indeed) infinity.
 In fact zero was seen as the void or a place where evil lived and infinity
 was seen as everything, a place where god lived (any god, it does not matter
 here).
 There have even cases of people being killed for attempting to use infinity
 or zero (especially an early Pythagorean who mused over a thing called
 an irrational (think crazy) number, which we will come to later).
 Just like the system of counting we use today (the base 10 system) took
 thousands of years to agree on so did the concept of zero.
 Therefore when teaching children to count to 10 and being delighted, think
 carefully are you instilling blind faith into them at this stage, after
 all what does counting to 10 actually mean, 10 what?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.7.
 Limits and things
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Zero is a notion, infinity is a notion and the base 10 system is a notion
 (base anything is).
 By this I mean none of them really exist unless we introduce limits into
 nature (mathematical limits are discussed later, so don't jump ahead).
 The limits we use to represent numbers are pretty straightforward but missed
 by many.
 For instance we can say we have 2 apples, but immediately we are working
 within limits without realising it.
 The limit here is our notion of an apple, after all if somebody held up
 an apple and orange and stated I have 2 apples, we would realise our limits
 have been breached pretty quickly.
 These limits govern much of modern life and for good reason actually.
 So taking this further lets say a person holds up a granny smith apple
 and a golden delicious apple and says I have 2 apples, again limits are
 introduced.
 The person is holding up 2 dierent things but it's OK in this case the
 limit has not been breached, there still apples, but there still different
 things, so we can have 1 of something and 1 of another thing equal to 2,
 what about dividing these 2 things now - can we? If that person then increases
 the limit or parameters of his things by adding more words to the description
 like saying I have 2 green apples (well they may be, but..) then we impose
 further limits almost without thinking and can evaluate whether this is
 true.
 Add some more detail, i.e.
 saying I have 2 green apples each with a leaf on them and we may break
 the limit, note here the leaf in question is also limited to fall within
 certain parameters for our human way of thinking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore we can use these numbers like 2 apples within limits and only
 within limits.
 This is true for everything in nature and therefore everything in maths
 and science as these are the study of nature, even though we forget this
 quickly.
 So many limits can be boiled down to individual words (like apple) and
 these words inserted in our basic vocabulary, thereby allowing us to ignore
 the fact that many numbers and systems of calculation are in fact not real
 but purely notional.
 This may hurt your head a little and it should.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So numbers represent things limited for us to easily digest, however the
 whole notion of adding and dividing can be shown very quickly to be against
 nature, i.e.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.8.
 MIDDLE EARTH
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
15
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
in the above example we cannot get to 1 thing again unless we maintain a
 limit, but imagine for instance we do something a bit different with this,
 while we are playing about anyway.
 Take the apples half each of them (or more precisely cut them in 2 relatively
 equal mass objects) and we have 4 halves of apples.
 Now if we take a half of each apple (preferably a red and a green one)
 and put it together in our hand and say to another person look I have an
 apple, our limit thinking is challenged, no you don't have an apple you
 have 2 halves, would be the likely answer.
 Think about this 2 times 1/2 is not one any more, our limits have gotten
 us into some trouble.
 How do we get over this fact then? well actually the answers pretty poor,
 we train ourselves and children to ignore it, like the ancients ignored
 zero as evil we currently ignore this kind of thing, to the extent many
 people reading this will simply not accept it or even be able to question
 it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But wait ! we can't use precision as we cannot measure into infinitesimally
 small differences to categorise them, we need limits!.
 Yes we do need limits but we also need to see those limits and understand
 them, otherwise we a removing some vision that could be important in understand
ing nature related to maths and science etc.
 and as we already know this is vitally important.
 Just realise for now the notion (yes notion) of 1 is a notion and not really
 a thing that exists without limiting factors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.8.
 Middle Earth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another interesting area not covered in modern teaching is what is sometimes
 referred to as the midd le earth syndrome (well I refer to it that way).
 This is looking and taking care of perspective in our assumptions of nature
 and all it holds.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Imagine being the size of an electron, difficult as an electron has no size!,
 it's a point particle with zero dimensions! Anyhow imagine you were that
 small, the distance from you to the nucleus of an atom is equivalent (roughly)
 of a spectator at the edge of a large football pitch to the centre.
 So take 1,000 football pitches in every direction as your domain (still
 inside something of the order human hairs width) and what does your world
 look like now.
 Lots of empty spaces with huge globs every so often (nucleus's) and stuff
 like you whizzing about and possibly appearing and disappearing.
 If you were in a head of hair then perhaps your whole life would exist
 in that area (you may only live a few thousandth of a second) This is mind
 boggling and difficult to imagine for us as we try and relate this to our
 world (as I just did with football pitches and human hairs).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now imagine instead being something the size of cosmic ob jects (planets).
 Never mind seeing atoms you would not see people, instead your world would
 be lots of space with big globs every so often (planets) and little stuff
 whizzing about (comets and dust).
 Again we cannot imagine this, but if we were that size would our view of
 nature be the same as the micro size being or even us, the middle earth
 being.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So what if we were visited by something on the cosmic scale, maybe several
 million light years away! or indeed by a micro organism the size of a sub
 atomic particle, would we be aware of such creatures? I think not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More importantly if we were that scale would or view of what's important
 be inclined to be very different, you may answer obviously, but why? it's
 all nature, it
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
16
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
does not change.
 So do we and should we look from differing perspectives when we try and
 find out more in our quest for ultimate knowledge, or even just wanting
 to know a tiny bit more than we do?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How does all this affect another measure we use, time?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.9.
 Number bases
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Time is a very interesting issue and way beyond the scope of this short
 etching to fully understand (in fact way beyond the capability of mankind
 I think).
 If we limit our look at time to our counting, to stay focused on one issue,
 then we can find some very interesting things.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First of all time as we categorise it mechanically is broken into 12 hour
 cycles with 60 Min and 60 second increments.
 Interesting to note here this is similar to the ancient mechanisms of counting,
 not in our base 10 but in base 12 and base 60 (base 60 was interesting
 as 5 fingers on one hand and the 3 knuckles times 4 fingers of the other
 hand) which is very useful in calculating and easily writing down huge
 numbers.
 It was used successfully to calculate things related to the large numbers
 associates with cosmic events, these were important to the ancient humans.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So time is in a strange base and not split into 10's as we would expect,
 well not until we change this and get lower than 1 second where we jump
 into a base 10 dierence, hundredths of a second thousands etc., does that
 not seem strange to have 3 number bases in a time situation.
 Yet this is the case and we ignore it and just get on with our lives as
 though it were normal, even though it's not normal and in fact rather strange.
 Then we have bigger times, weeks (7 day), months (28-31 days) and so on,
 we also break down into four seasons and why ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For people who are debating whether this is indeed many bases, it's worth
 looking at Gauss's (the great German mathematician remembered in Gottigen,
 Germany) counting clock.
 This is where he replaces the number 12 with a 0 and then uses rotations
 around the clock as counting up to multiples of 12 and the minutes counted
 after the number of 12's of the hour hand represent the modulo of the addition
 or multiplication etc.
 of any numbers in base 12.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.10.
 Analogue and Digital Measurements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the previous section we discovered the use of an analogue clock to create
 number bases.
 If we replace the 12 with a 0 in out typical clock the hour hand is in
 base 12 and the minute hand would be base 60.
 Let us ignore the second hand for a while as it complicates matters.
 If we considered it then it's also base 60 but that could transform the
 minute hand to base 3600 and the hour hand to base 43200 depending on how
 we look at it.
 That's too big for now and a bit more complicated than we need here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So lets focus on only the minute and hour hand and no more, we will give
 the clock only hour markings as well to make things even easier.
 In this clock we only count in full numbers (no parts of numbers (yet!).
 To represent a number 6 we move the minute hand to six.
 To add 3 to this we move it forward 3 places.
 So now it is at 9.
 If we add another six to this we move it forward past zero to 3, but as
 we did pass zero we must move the hour hand to 1 (1st pass).
 The answer is read as 13
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.11.
 TIME
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
17
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(hour hand first then minute hand).
 That 13 is base 12 so in fact in base10 (our number base) it would be 15.
 Easy! Now we have an easy way to work in any base, just imagine a clock
 beginning at zero and divided into the numbers representing the base.
 It may be easy to also consider every time the hour hand goes past 0 to
 add another hour hand to count up the next range of numbers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now you have actually seen this configuration many times.
 If you look at a car odometer or an electricity or gas meter you will see
 a configuration quite similar.
 This is represented by a series of dials with numbers written around the
 outer edge of the wheel.
 The wheels are in series and each one represents another hour hand in the
 example above.
 However there are differences! In the digital type readouts in meters the
 numbers can click from one to another (in some cases slowly revolve) and
 when actual digital readouts took over the numbers do click from one to
 the next in an instant (relatively).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So we find digital is more accurate than analogue, digital music is clearer,
 watches are more accurate and so on.
 So our belief is that digital is better, but it's not natures way is it?
 It does not go from bright sunshine to snow in an instant (well in Scotland
 that is arguable :-)), nature takes time to change anything.
 Therefore the move to digital seems to be in opposition to natures teachings,
 and what have we discovered about doing that so far!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The analogue clock example from above is more interesting than that we think
 as you can point the hand along the 2.7...
 and state this may represent the number e, along 1.44...
 etc.
 and say this is the root of 2, 3.141...
 and say this is pi.
 None of these are disputable as they might point to the exact irrational
 (remember irrational == crazy or never ending) number.
 If the hand moves across these numbers we can say they will point to each
 of these numbers at some point.
 Try that with a √ very powerful computer, and wonder then why this simple
 mechanical device may work.
 We cannot get a computer to point to e or Pi or 2 but a simple dial with
 an analogue hour hand can! Is digital more accurate?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.11.
 Time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK before we proceed here let's get something straight, there's a diagram
 we are all aware of and this is the diagram of our solar system.
 We all know it with the sun at the middle and the planets forming large
 ellipses around it, yes! no! this is completely wrong as well.
 If indeed the earth formed a huge ellipse around the sun we would have
 2 very hot summers per year and 2 very cold winters per year.
 In fact it would be so hot the surface would likely scorch and so cold
 we would be a ball of ice.
 This is obviously not the case, so why ! why are we shown these pictures,
 well in fact it's rather embarrassing when you find out.
 These pictures are more interesting to look at that the almost concentric
 circles the solar system actually is, completely at almost concentric circles
 (actually it is a very slight ellipse, as Kepler and others showed, although
 nothing quite like the pictures we have in our minds, which are rather
 boring).
 So to keep us interested we all tell ourselves a lie, or more accurately
 let ourselves believe a lie, a lie that's so impossible it is almost inconceiva
ble!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sorry about that, that was an introduction to how we came to look up to
 the stars and planets and wonder how it all worked.
 How does it get cold sometimes and for
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
18
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
how long, and what does how long mean? These questions were all very important
 to early humans and ancestors because how could we calculate how to plant
 seeds etc.
 Well you could argue just watch the animals they have it sussed, and in
 fact this answer is way smarter than we realise, animals do have it sussed,
 but how? well that's for later.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So many years ago a system of watching the stars and calculating numbers
 to represent how many darkness periods there were in the time it took the
 earth to go around the sun from a point in space and return to that point
 became a year, eventually.
 Breaking things down further we needed to calculate when the heat would
 appear and when the cold would come.
 This meant breaking the number for a year down somehow to smaller increments,
 that was seasons, then months and then weeks.
 On of the most interesting divisions is that of months and these are related
 to the 12 zodiac signs and the planets related to them.
 So in between planting seed we had time to conjure up unearthly beings
 or Gods to occupy ourselves with, after all what could have made the thing
 we call earth and why?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enough of that.
 The point is there were numbers representing all this stuff, not base 10
 or calender related dates (not our modern calender anyway) but many other
 things like, sun lining up with cracks in caves, stones lining up with
 planets etc.
 and these things appeared everywhere and amaze us even to this day as to
 their accuracy and more interestingly some of the stones line up with planets
 and stars that were likely not visible in the days the stones were laid.
 We're maybe not as smart as our forefathers yet in many ways, but thankfully
 not all, I hope.
 Here is an example of nature not following our maths system of base ten
 and in fact being, well nature and doing it differently.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even today's calender is in question, if you think about it we went from
 the year 1 BC (Before Christ) to the year 1 AD (Ano Domini) but what of
 year zero.
 Our calender started at year 1 so after a year we were at year 2, so as
 a child is 1 after a year our calendar was 2.
 This is even more amusing when you consider the years are counted backwards
 towards zero (BC) before year 1 (I would not have enjoyed that time counting
 down to a date we did not know then) so they are actually negative years
 going back in time, but yet we automatically remove the minus sign and
 do not consider going back in years ! So our current calender had no initial
 few months before zero like a child who is less than 1 is said to be x
 months old etc.
 our own time just went straight to 1.
 This is another example of us being able to accept illogical and mathematically
 very debatable concepts in our ideas of time.
 It also shows though that whether there is a God or Jesus it was good that
 there was an event that we used to start the calendar at, no matter what
 the event was as counting years in numbers requires a start time, even
 though arguably we should have started at year zero.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore we now see that our concept of time is that it's constant (otherwise
 our clocks would have expanding and contracting faces with added and removed
 numbers) or so we believe.
 If we look at time a little bit closer then we realise there's something
 far from constant about it in fact.
 Take satellite GPS systems where remote objects (satellites) beam down
 signals to devices we hold and these devices (GPS receivers) calculate
 the distance from each satellite and triangulate our current position very
 accurately.
 However it is interesting when further researching this very worthwhile
 tool that we look at how it works a tiny bit closer.
 The hand-held
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.12.
 TRUTH
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
19
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
device needs to know how far each satellite is and it does this using time!
 so each satellite transmits a signal with a time stamp, our device reads
 the time stamp and uses the very elementary speed time distance triangle
 calculation (dist = speed / time) where we know the speed of radio waves
 (radio waves are like light waves just of different frequencies from what
 we consider light, later we find out everything is!) through air, we know
 the time and we can work out the distance.
 This seems reasonably easy to understand and it is (although geostationary
 satellites are not at constant height orbits, and therefore the speed of
 light through space and through our atmosphere is dierent and therefore
 changing every small time increment, but ignoring this for now) until,
 however we see that the satellite ground stations have to transmit time
 corrections to the satellite's to maintain accuracy.
 This is mainly (but not completely as noted earlier) due to the fact time
 way up there is going slower than way down here on earth.
 So time may be constant but it's also using going at dierent speeds at
 different points in space.
 On earth, if you want to go forward in time (well actually time to go slower
 for you) just stand up, to go back in time (well actually time to go faster
 for you) lie down, it's just that the increments of faster or slower in
 time as so small you will not see them, but it's true you are time travelling
 in the actual sense of the phrase! So is time constant, or constantly changing,
 or relatively constant at constant distances from planets and objects in
 space (which is impossible) ? It certainly seems like another notion we
 do not quite understand but again within limits we can deal with it, albeit
 we also ignore lots of facts about time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.12.
 Truth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Truth is something we are also inclined to be negligent about and consider
 it something we have or own and something we mostly (I hope) look after,
 but we con- stantly go against it.
 Take for instance the person who states they would never harm or kill an
 animal, whilst eating a hamburger! or the person who says I would never
 steal, whilst wearing a tee shirt made in a sweat shop somewhere in the
 developing world.
 There's loads of incidents and it's interesting to look a bit further and
 understand what's going on here.
 It's only investigation so not to worry, we will see we are all terrible
 liars and extremely honest!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We know a lie is defined as being an untruth or the opposite of truth, we
 have also seen so far there's likely a couple of untruths we have been
 proliferating through our lives.
 It's very likely then so far we have started to realise we lie and the
 truth is maybe something we search for but only from a source of either
 unknown or misinformation to a great extent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The truth or the ultimate truths we strive to attain are very difficult
 and require to be compartmentalised.
 Any truth we know is only a truth if the foundations we used to calculate
 that truth are themselves true.
 As we know without any question we are not in possession of all the facts
 of the world (nature again) then we know that there can not really be a
 truth.
 So our truths and beliefs are all based on information that we know is
 wrong, therefore our truths are incorrect.
 They may happen to explain some information in a way that works in these
 pockets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An example is aircraft lift, for many years there was belief that planes
 wings (and yacht sails) created a lift force due to splitting air molecules
 and forcing one through
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
20
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 BASIC SCHOOLING
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
a longer route than the other.
 The lift being created by the longer route molecules creating a vacuum,
 this is now shown to be wrong (surprisingly! or maybe not).
 What really happens is the wings cut through the air and the speed of the
 air passing under the wing causes the lift (it's not really lift).
 It's surprisingly just the same as putting your hand out the window of
 a moving car and adjusting the angle to the ground and feeling our arm
 being raised or pushed down.
 Regardless though the equations work almost in the same way when designing
 these wings or setting a sail in a racing yacht.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the same way in the UK we use electric current ow in one direction and
 in America it's the opposite that is believed, again it's not so important
 and the equations work (although there is minus sign issues at times).
 So we can be wrong but still stuff works.
 So even when we see nature does what we think it should, given our knowledge
 we still have to realise we do not have the big picture, only nature has
 and it will show us some new rules every so often, we just need to be prepared
 to accept them and that means admission of being wrong, for the really
 smart it's not admission it should be gleeful acceptance.
 That is the path enlightenment lives on.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This knowledge can allow us to expand our minds well beyond any existing
 under- standing.
 The absolute understanding we are in fact wrong probably about nearly everythin
g we currently know is arguably the only way we can grow as a species.
 This is not what the current system teaches us, but looking back at history
 we have nearly always had to alter our knowledge base as the fundamentals
 (or first principles) are altered.
 There is lots of proof of this, think of Archimedes and maths, Galileo,
 Copernicus, Kepler, Newton, Maxwell Clerk, Einstein and many others who
 showed us new ways and on occasion re-addressed some mistakes and in some
 cases by causing massive upheaval and rewriting of what we believed our
 knowledge was.
 sometimes this happened at great cost, with people being killed by burning,
 drowning or simply beaten to death, just for uncovering new truths.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are not, as a species, tolerant of change and this has to change.
 Only a strong and well founded education system that relishes dierences
 and thirsts new knowl- edge and belief will allow this to happen.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.13.
 Our own bodies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By the time we get to primary school (starts at 5 years old in Scotland)
 and do a couple of years study we can read and write with some degree of
 ability.
 What we maybe do not realise is that we were never born!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So we are all aware that our cells replenish a lot, that's why children
 grow and adults slowly age, cells are replaced by newer cells and some
 of the newer cells maybe are not so good as the old ones were and we age
 etc.
 So again we all know this, it's empirical we can see it or at least the
 eects of it.
 It also does not surprise us to learn that pretty much (lets consider 100%
 here just now) all of our cells are replaced frequently.
 Again it's no surprise to learn the oldest cell we have is approx seven
 years old and will be replaced very soon in this case.
 None of this is real news, so what's the idea here ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well now put all this together like the solar system picture we learn, we
 can see there's a glaring omission in our thinking, at 7 years old were
 a completely new
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.13.
 OUR OWN BODIES
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
21
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
body from we were born, arghh!, even more alarming is to think the person
 we go home to and call mother is not the person who gave birth to us, neither
 of us was at the birth ! So seven years after looking out the window at
 the bird which a part of landed in our brain, is the bird still there or
 forgotten and if it's there then is it on a new piece of matter ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So we leaned we can do time travel pretty easily and now we see we can do
 matter transport just as easy, in fact we cannot, not do matter transport
 as our cells are being left behind and new ones growing continually! Some
 of these understanding may make later revelations and perhaps untruths
 easier to accept as being remotely plausible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CHAPTER 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Further Education
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.1.
 Fork in the road
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So on we go to further education, secondary school, college, university
 and so on and what are we achieving.
 Well lets look back for a minute at primary education all the way to here.
 We had our parents likely teaching us (even if we did not realise it) and
 perhaps nursery teachers and then school teachers.
 Hopefully they all did a good job, but what were they teaching us? I think
 they were teaching us knowledge, but not a split up or single track of
 knowledge but just knowledge.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So in furthering our education we perhaps for the first time in our lives
 realise something (or are trained to), and this is a very peculiar thing
 indeed, more strange than some of the initial chapter.
 We are not only told we cannot keep learning knowledge but in fact we are
 prohibited from doing so by the whole weight of the education system.
 It is time to stop learning knowledge that's what furthering our studies
 is forcing us to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is the time in our lives that we start to make choices about what part
 of knowledge we want to explore, is it Literature and arts or maths and
 science ? This is perhaps required due to the mechanisms we use to teach
 but also very dangerous indeed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is important to recall what we are all trying to learn about and what
 issues we are looking to solve (otherwise we don't need education we just
 need a good book with the answer in it).
 All we are studying and learning about is nature and that's it.
 Nature as we know is everything around us, animals, water, all the basic
 chemical compounds, plants, trees, sky, planets, stars etc.
 even questions like who are we? why are we ? are part of the study if nature.
 Now we are told you can only use certain tools to nd these answers, sort
 of like saying to a car mechanic, you may x this car but can only choose
 a subset of tools to do it with and beforehand we cannot tell you what's
 the problem is, it may need repeated or a new engine, but you Can only
 choose a small set of tools form this tool-bag.
 The further we go into education the lesser the set of tools we are allowed
 to use and likely the cars we attempt to repair are extremely more complex.
 This is one of the ultimate dichotomies of an apparently educated society.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.2.
 Cement the disbelief
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To achieve this dichotomy in a way we can accept we need to do some work
 to force ourselves into certain untruths again.
 Sorry but this is how we do things, or at least have done so far.
 So we need to choose only some tools and not others, in the above analogy.
 A good way to accept this is to imagine the tools we did not
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
23
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
24
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 FURTHER EDUCATION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
choose were only tools we could not use anyway, they are either rubbish
 and don't work (although we know they do for others) or there too complex
 (although OK for others) or there simply the wrong tools (although there
 OK for others).
 There we have a bag of mis-truths we can use.
 So now we need to cement these truths and we have some help along the way.
 As we now segregate into our groups who have all chosen the same tools
 we find a very powerful force that humanity has made enormous use of in
 the past to perpetuate many kinds of half-truths.
 This force is found in groups of peers, peers who share a same belief and
 can enhance that by agreement with your lies.
 Hey I have the same lie you're unlikely to hear but absolutely that's the
 truth you're very likely to hear.
 There we go it's becoming cemented now, nearly enough to believe the other
 students who picked dierent tools are wrong.
 (I know and so do you we all did it).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now we can go into class and be rearmed from our mentor and idol for the
 time were there, the teacher, that our beliefs are correct this is the
 best sub ject (tool) to have chosen and holds such wonder and merriment
 that life without this tool would be woefully incomplete.
 Job done, lie is set.
 But! this is a strange lie as we probably have several sub jects and hear
 the same thing in all of them from possibly different peers and different
 teachers, but then we have another protection we can adapt and reform the
 lie to oh all these tools are so good, none are bad and yet I am glad I
 did not choose the others cause there obviously all the wrong tools for
 life on this planet, he he!.
 We ignore that each tools is the best thing to have chosen and now it's
 a set of the best things to have chosen, we can adapt truths to match our
 beliefs very quickly.
 I am painting a very poor picture here and please forgive me but I need
 to get this point driven home then tear it all down again, hopefully.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.3.
 Laws and Theories
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In many subjects we have what is referred to as laws.
 A law is something that allows theories to be proven by experiment or vision
 in nature.
 A theory is the opposite of this, it may be something that sounds right,
 or has maths that appear to work, but not yet proven completely by experiment
 (or seen continually and consistently in nature).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Something that is extraordinary is that this is a fundamental and absolute
 foundation of our knowledge, however, we teach people theories as though
 they are laws.
 As time goes by these theories (still unproven) are added to with more
 theories on top of the original idea.
 After this we build great universities and education es- tablishments and
 ll these with professors, lecturers and impart these theories onto students.
 These students then believe the theories are true (they are not really
 told or reminded of this fact).
 As the students themselves become industry employees and perhaps even lecturers
 themselves the theory becomes further believed, until we forget it was
 a theory in the first place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We must have theories and we must constantly remind ourselves these theories
 are simply theories.
 This is a thing to investigate, not to believe is true, in fact acceptance
 of a theory as true is what propaganda tries to do when persuading people
 you are correct and they are wrong, it's also what many believe religion
 is and this is not something that should ever be taught as correct.
 It should be part
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.4.
 E = M C 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
25
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
of education, but firmly in the theory category and never in the law category,
 until proven to a level that satises us it is absolute and measurable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are many examples of this, far to numerous to mention, but even simply
 looking back and seeing all the discoveries that happened and are still
 happening it is obvious we must continue to check and recheck what we teach
 children.
 Electrons or photons with the wave/partial duality is an example, this
 whole thing is in disarray and thought to be corpuscular (particles) in
 fact.
 I know I was taught light was a wave and I believe many others have been,
 and still probably are.
 This is something we have to address, before the untruth is cemented into
 an education system that then builds on a theory that is wrong.
 What makes this a disaster is that we would take marks o or penalise a
 student who used the correct or updated theory over the currently being
 taught incorrect theory, this is amazing and casts the education system
 as a weapon against knowledge growth rather than as the most important
 allay.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.4.
 E = M C 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Physics, an amazing subject, the study of maths applied to nature and the
 constant search for the answer to the next thing we don't know!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many people do not understand physics due the predominantly mathematical
 nature of the subject but we all actually use physics daily in many ways.
 Whereas not many people can relate to physics we all know a couple of things
 about it.
 One such thing is the famous Swiss Patent Clerk Albert Einstein, seen as
 the scruffy doddering genius and loving it.
 An icon of the modern world and revered by many as the ultimate brain Einstein
 on top of the works of his predecessors came up with a few good theories
 and the famous equation E = M C 2 which I have never bought into.
 This equation is misrepresented in may ways by many people either eminent
 physicians or simply ordinary folks, not that physicians are not ordinary
 folks mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Primarily this is part of a theory, not a law! that means it is not proved
 conclusively, although it shows promise.
 So what does that all mean?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a few things this equation shows, energy and mass are related
 directly if we introduce a constant.
 That's really about it, it's a mass energy swapping device, i.e.
 mass can become energy and energy can become mass.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So why do I have a problem?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I remember as a child playing with batteries and motors and bulbs and realising
 that when I first saw a dynamo (DC generator on a wheel of a bike) I had
 an epiphany, anything that can make energy can be made from energy.
 This was my understanding from my very limited experiments with coiling
 wire and moving magnets through them and creating electricity (reverse
 motor), or heating a coil to create electricity (reverse bulb) etc.
 of course I realised this was true but energy losses appeared considerable
 so I looked at them.
 I seen that the heat I used to heat a coil was nearly all lost to the atmospher
e and the energy used by me from food and air was to hard to measure to
 see how much I lost moving that magnet through a coil.
 I was convinced though that there may not be energy conservation there
 was certainly energy conversion from one form and always back again.
 I still do!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
26
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 FURTHER EDUCATION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lately I have studied some of Einstein, Penrose, Feynman (best yet I think)
 and some others along with going back and looking at some maths bits and
 pieces, but doing so yearning to know rather than needing to pass a test.
 In this time I have revisited my early thinking which was squished out
 of me I think a wee bit by modern society or something.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a few issues here at play and there quite interesting.
 First though let me say all these chaps and women who have gone down the
 road of learning and taking us further have done fantastically well, much
 better than I could, but never the less, there's some questions physics
 students have and there largely ignored I feel.
 Examples of these are: • You cannot move something faster than the speed
 of light • Some sub atomic particles appear to have no mass • Lots of distant
 ob jects depend on general relativity and the speed of light to measure
 properly
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are some more but let's tackle these a bit at a time.
 OK Muons travelling through glass move faster than the speed of light.
 So it's nothing can move faster than the speed of light in a vacuum some
 will say.
 Well I feel it's not the approaching speed of light that's the issue it's
 nding a vacuum.
 Space is not a vacuum as we know know so does that mean we can travel faster
 than light in a non vacuum, muons and some other particles can!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sub atomic particles appear to start life with no mass and get mass somehow,
 from big bang theories mass must have come from somewhere, we are searching
 for a Higgs Boson in CERN now with the large hadron collider which smashes
 hadrons together to create images of what the big bang may have looked
 like.
 This is done to attempt to emulate the beginning of what we understand
 as the universe.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now there's the last point and I will lump it together in this little trip
 down insanity lane again for a while.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If light exists, and were pretty sure it does, it's the part of the electromagne
tic spectrum we can see (we can feel, smell etc.
 other parts of it, hmm!).
 If it exists it must not have at one point i.e.
 till you switch on a torch bulb for instance and electrons thrash about
 and give of photons of light corpuscles (particles basically).
 So it's moving at the speed of light in the stuff were also in (our atmosphere,
 the atmosphere in the room etc.) but how did it get to that speed and in
 how long a time.
 Well apparently instantly which means immediately it must have accelerated
 faster than the speed of light to get there, so a scalar limit can be broken
 by a vector quantity, eh? I mean give light direction and it can go faster
 than the scalar constant that is it's apparent limit.
 That's strange.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK that's issue 1, but what about the rest.
 Well if you imagine light accelerates from rest (which it kinda has to)
 and reaches a speed in the matter it's currently in (whether space or here
 on earth) and stays at that speed till the matter changes (i.e.
 in any matter the light instantaneously slows or accelerates to the light
 matter velocity and remains static at that velocity).
 This may seem weird but it's just maybe we don't think like this normally
 so keep that mind open a wee bit longer.
 If light can accelerate/decelerate faster than light velocity (which is
 the C in C 2 ) then we have something we can cope with, though a tough
 way of getting there I
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.4.
 E = M C 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
27
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
admit.
 This is that we can see light as a normal (in our mid earth limited view
 of everything) ob ject with inertia, gathering momentum and eventually
 stopping (or being absorbed).
 So it's like a car starting driving to its top speed and staying there.
 If you move the car to a higher altitude with better gripping roads it
 may go faster than if you drive it through thick sand.
 There ye go we can see light like a car now.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So imagine at the sub atomic level if light speed is quite small and at
 cosmic distances its very fast (faster than C), what would this mean? well
 according to Einstein and proved in labs there is a relationship between
 mass and speed, if you accelerate faster you get more mass, decelerate
 and you get less mass.
 So slower speed less mass, this seems reasonable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If this is the case and the previous paragraph is correct then at the sub
 atomic level (slow light) mass would be tiny and in fact at zero speed
 there's zero mass, aha the invisible Higgs Boson may not be required after
 all, as particles will get mass with speed.
 Now what of those distant planets who appear massive, more so that we would
 have imagined in many cases (I hear this a lot, we found a planet in a
 solar system but it seems very massive).
 What if the lights not going at the speed of light all the way there and
 back as we imagine, thereby giving us the ability to verify mass, what
 if the lights going slower, then the planets would not be as massive.
 Could this be an answer to a riddle ? who knows but it's worth more thought
 and we will get back to it soon.
 We need to remember questions create know ledge listening only permeates
 it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CHAPTER 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nature of thought
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.1.
 Language
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What's makes us soft, tough, expressive, accurate or mellow ? If we study
 the language used to communicate then we can see a lot of our culture in
 that language.
 I am sure this is quite well known but I am not sure how well understood.
 Looking at Chinese or Far Eastern languages in general which can be made
 up of essentially symbols very dierent from Middle Eastern or Western symbols.
 What does this mean first?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well all symbols are dierent somehow but the general structure of symbols
 in these cases are interesting i.e.
 Arabic with its long owing very joined up right to left direction is very
 dierent from the almost box shaped very regular symbols of the Far East,
 and also very different from Latin or Germanic based languages as in the
 West which seem to form some basic shapes which are repeated or joined
 vertically to form our symbols.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The language structure of each of these regions (and within them) is also
 very telling, i.e.
 in native Scott's language (Gaelic) there is no real way to express yes
 or no and in fact it's considered a spoken language.
 This means that stories and teachings are passed down orally and therefore
 this is one reason perhaps Scott's are considered relatively honest in
 the world as dishonesty, especially when Gaelic was prevalent, would have
 hampered teaching and historic records.
 Compared with today's use of a language which is very much a written one
 and we nd contracts and certificates important, i.e.
 written proof as it were.
 Although when we can rely on the written word and treat it with more respect
 that the spoken word we nd the spoken word is very often used to express
 untruths (and confidence trickery) and this may be due in part to the fact
 that this can be tolerated as the written word is the ultimate truth (well
 lawyers would certainly say so).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perhaps seeing the spoken word as the ultimate truth would force society
 to be more open and honest as arguably the Gaels were and probably still
 are to this day.
 I single out Scotland here for this example only, there are lots of examples
 of this through history, i.e.
 even in English prior to written testament by the masses was possible and
 pre-Gutenberg1 then perhaps the situation in England was very similar.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now worldwide we have the situation where speeches reflect feeling on occasion
 but the written testament or agreements are what matters most.
 Presidents can talk of getting rid of all nuclear weapons for example but
 until an agreement is in writing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1Printing press technology to allow the creation of cheap and available
 to the masses, copies of written text or books as we call them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
29
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
30
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 NATURE OF THOUGHT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
which we tend to photograph and celebrate, then it's not really considered
 real or lawful.
 This is an example of how understated and less respected the spoken word
 can be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In noting this it's also interesting how countries may then use actual spoken
 words of foreign nationals etc., which may be out of context or overstated
 in a passionate address, to invade their countries and ignore written testament
 to the contrary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So we trust the written word almost exclusively except when we have something
 that's perhaps not supported or even not completely true to be carried
 out and then we rely on the here-say to allow us an element of obfuscation
 from our actual motives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This happens in nearly all walks of society where we cannot buy a car without
 paperwork but we can put somebody in jail for years with false evidence
 or witnesses who are less than truthful.
 It is a strange dichotomy we seem to be able to follow very easily and
 ignore the weird nature of language in it's forms which alter from acceptable
 to not acceptable depending on the circumstance it's used.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Looking at world events of great importance we see the largest events are
 very much based on oral communications which must be misunderstood as we
 do go to war ! Smaller issues where control of masses are involved require
 a paper trail to ensure control is retained over great periods of time
 and unlike the larger world events which tend to be relatively quickly
 undertaken and therefore in no need of paper trails to remind us (in case
 we were wrong, think weapons of mass destruction).
 This lack of tangible evidence serves many purposes and not al l of them
 would appear honourable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of course it is not acceptable to expect all ma jor events, due to their
 very nature, to have written communication.
 This section merely hints at the issues involved in traversing from a spoken
 word society to one of written word and maybe doing so very quickly without
 a chance to create some ground rules or learn how we could do it most eectively.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.2.
 Nature of perception of goodness
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What drives change and why? Are good deeds done by selfish people?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have heard people state, there is no such thing as a good gesture and
 everyone is helping themselves and not helping others, especially active
 charity workers and the like.
 I understand this thought process and perhaps even agree, but looking further
 there is good reason.
 Again nature is amazing and has likely planned all this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We all have issues and are built to imagine our past could always be better,
 this may be abusive parents, too caring parents or other issues like environmen
tal or social standing etc.
 The list is endless actually and great that it is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So why would somebody wish to help others, is that person saving themselves,
 in the bigger picture does that even matter.
 In the study of complexity theory we learn things like the buttery eect
 and why small changes can lead to enormous differences, even catastrophic
 at times.
 In general good grows good and vice verse.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.4.
 HERE COMES COMPLEXITY THEORY AGAIN AND THE LITTLE WE KNOW OF IT.31
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So are good deeds selshly for you or are they actually you being a good
 person.
 I firmly believe it's the same thing! This is where I agree with the no
 good deed is pure and only for others, notion.
 It cannot be, but in the same token it makes complete sense and if anything
 it makes the good deed even more important.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.3.
 What about bad people doing bad deeds and what is a bad deed?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I think there is a disease in society and it takes many forms;
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Greed and money lust ghting every possible ght acting without knowledge,
 believing bad too quickly, constantly shouting at injustice (even perceived).
 Of course religious and political extremism need to be added, I think consideri
ng these as the same thing and just extremism is good enough.
 I can see no dierence in either, in both cases children are inuenced into
 one 'church' or another or in some cases go to the other 'church' in deance
 of some other issue (usually parents or early peer pressure).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So lets get straight to it, there are probably no completely bad people,
 even mass murderers and rapists have been interviewed and seen as really
 nice calm and caring individuals and to many who know them this is what
 they are, but to their victims they are the devil incarnate and rightly
 so! So there are people who are a bit bad and a bit good, this works in
 reverse as well so it's a relative balance, but what is the constituent
 part of our make up that can be considered the fulcrum of this scale of
 good verses evil.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Who can judge the middle part, or do we take a simpler view, there is an
 extreme bad and crossing that makes somebody permanently bad (it seems
 that is the case).
 So what about extreme good, can a person do so much good there outcast
 as an extremest.
 Well it depends on the judges, does it not? In the latter example if the
 judges are extremist religious group who celebrate the ultimate sacrice
 (and good deed) of a suicide bomber who skilfully kills lots of 'the enemy'.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So who is the judge, is it the ma jority, what then of minority protection,
 should we abandon this and just kill all the red headed people for instance?
 My hair goes red in the sun, so I had better be careful here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These, in my opinion, are all examples of lack of true education and free
 thinking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.4.
 Here comes complexity theory again and the little we know of it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let's go back to our minority group, the extremists, that is religious and
 political activists (yes activists, not extreme activists, just activists).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are some famous experiments carried out at Stanford University in
 California that look into human perceived levels of crossing the line (or
 placing the fulcrum), in all of these experiments it showed the evil (relativel
y measured) everyone is not only capable of, but indeed easily (in a few
 hours) adopt what we would consider an evil personality and not only that
 but maintain it and allow it to grow very quickly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The reason for some of these experiments was to try and thought out just
 how some atrocities can happen like the holocaust or what the crusaders
 did to the Muslims and the uncountable mass acts of barbarism there are
 to choose from.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
32
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 NATURE OF THOUGHT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One test was to take people from the street and take them into a room with
 a scientic adviser, who was an actor that represented the authority thought.
 The people were told to read out questions to another person who was hidden
 behind a wall.
 An incorrect answer meant the quiz master (the person of the street) would
 ip a switch administering an electric shock to the person behind the wall.
 These people (over 80%) administered shocks in an ever increasing manner
 to well over 400Volts, which of course is deadly.
 The person behind the wall would scream after each shock and in latter
 stages make no noise as though they were unconscious (or worse).
 Regardless the people administering the tests did apply these deadly shocks,
 which of course were fake.
 This test was carried out twice with the same results, people would take
 action that kills when told to do so or by being relieved of the authority
 of killing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another test carried out twice (as far as I know) was to take Stanford students
 and split them into 2 groups, prison wardens and prisoners.
 This was started by the police rushing into their homes and taking the
 students to a jail.
 The test had to be abandoned both times after a short period as the wardens
 became extremely controlling and actually started to make the prisoners
 perform sexual acts and other acts that were incredibly degrading.
 The experiment was stopped and psychiatrists were required from many students
 to recover from the ordeal.
 Why ? you may ask did they do this, and that is the unanswered question,
 never the less it is the case this is what did happen.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This gives clear results and shows we are very easily manipulated, but it
 leaves a bigger question, what's natural, evil or good? there was no attempt
 to answer this question, perhaps we are to scared to know.
 I note another interesting thing about these experiments though, they seem
 to be mostly measured against men, I did not see any women involved, perhaps
 there is a clue there.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Were men evolved from hunters and therefor ghters with ability to kill and
 do so without remorse or much thought? Did it have to be like this to get
 us to where we currently are? and is this a mostly dormant although overwhelmin
g emotion that exists in us all.
 I know many previous people say it is, but that is too easy and a cop out
 headline hunting thing to say.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What about women then, are they naturally programmed to not question these
 acts? I would think they have to be.
 Just as much as it's possible for a male to be 'evil' it's possible for
 a female to ignore that.
 Maybe that is why so many men get married in prison to women they have
 not met!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Is it wrong then?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well it's probably not, it is what nature had to do to get us here, where
 we are today.
 Therefor we need to not only accept it but be thankful for it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Is that getting better ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Absolutely! If we take all known data about population and deaths, particularly
 deaths of a person by another (including all war) then there is an exponential
 decay.
 This means we are moving towards zero, but unlikely ever to get there.
 This is what exponential decay means, not a worry we may be so close to
 zero it's immeasurable.
 What ? pardon ? how can that be ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.4.
 HERE COMES COMPLEXITY THEORY AGAIN AND THE LITTLE WE KNOW OF IT.33
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well people kill people in a variety of ways, perhaps the recent banking
 crisis has killed more people than say a few plane crashes or wars (personally
 I think it has).
 These deaths may be subtle like people who commit suicide due to it or
 people who have not been able to live their dream of creating a new thing
 for us all, eectively killed as far as humanity is concerned as they may
 now never fully contribute.
 This not not zero but closer and the closer we get to that we have to imagine
 we are evolving for the better.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is all related to education and education is at the root of all of
 this seemingly misplaced chapter.
 As people realise their own value and can question even their deepest beliefs
 with clarity and full acceptance of the opposite being more likely we will
 get to the magic zero.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CHAPTER 4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nature of Consciousness
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.1.
 Natures very clever game
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nature is what we refer to as the ever evolving mixture of molecules, atoms
 and cells which form things, these things can be animals, plants, structures
 etc.
 but in essence there all evolving and must have evolved if we are to believe
 once there was nothing or a big bang.
 It is interesting to note this big bang theory is again a theory, we may
 always have been here, or perhaps we never were! The answer is likely in
 between these two hypothesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An interesting theory that I have been playing with recently is that thought,
 just like any other thing is also evolving.
 So whether other beings are capable of thought is irrelevant here in this
 debate, thereby making it an easier hypothesis to follow.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.2.
 So how does this work then ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Looking back as far as we feasibly can in time and history we see the evolution
 of speech or communication beyond basic sounds into what we call today
 language.
 This language may be recorded, written, spoken, sung etc.
 and we use it in many ways.
 The driving force behind the communication ability (beyond the evolution
 of vocal chords such as ours) is often referred to as thought or intelligence
 (which I do not favour, Canadian tree frogs can freeze solid and thaw out
 again, year in year out without damage, we cannot manage that with all
 our intelligence).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As time has passed to the current day we can map out the advances in communi-
 cation and now we have the Internet and global communications for the first
 time and this is improving exponentially.
 This is much more remarkable time in our evolution than I feel most people
 realise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We still have governments and large companies saying things such as we cannot
 yet measure the benets of a more integrated and faster Internet, therefore
 cannot spend money on it! This must be one of the most ludicrous statements
 and a clear example of a society with insanity at it's core.
 We all see increased communications as one of the most dramatic changes
 to our life's and yet when looking at improving it we feel we need to have
 the ability to time travel forward to make doubly sure it works, with all
 the weight of evidence that it does so readily available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you now think laterally it would appear thought takes a part in this
 evolution, as thought (or consciousness) evolves then we communicate more
 eectively.
 An example is the fact we kill less people today than every before (if
 you map the amount of people killed by people throughout history the graph
 is an exponential
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
35
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
36
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 NATURE OF CONSCIOUSNESS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
decay, almost getting to zero now, this includes all wars and genocidal
 acts of recent times).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As we have already seen nature is far more complex than we can understand
 today and can achieve things we cannot such as the tree frog or bacteria
 that live in radiation etc.
 It appears then that thought is an evolutionary issue and this may explain
 other issues as well, such as why are so many people depressed these days
 (animals don't seem to be as eected).
 Could it be this evolutionary process is like every other i.e.
 there's lots of mistakes along the way that are rectied in later generations
 of the evolutionary process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This would also indicate there's another issue nature has to deal with and
 perhaps it does it very well.
 This issue is ltering, how can a collection of thoughts be added together
 in a random fashion.
 Well the answer is it cannot! unless we introduce ltering.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.3.
 Natures Filter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So how does the lter work ? If we look at people then there's a pretty large
 body of evidence that secluded people become ill fast and generally do
 not survive too long.
 Also we should note that people are automatic lters, by this I mean if
 you listen to a story you may repeat it (adding to collective intelligence)
 or you may be bored by the story and not repeat it, thereby naturally ltering
 what gets passed on.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As you grow then you gather lots of information personal to you that you
 do not pass on such as your own memories, everything your eyes see (and
 also lter to an extent) and every feeling you have.
 As you age the brain lls up with a lot more of this and you are left with
 a head full of these thoughts like a washing machine with a dirty lter,
 it starts to clog up.
 As you age then you also communicate less and slow down, thereby discovering
 less to pass on (in many cases) and this is where nature has built the
 perfect lter, death ! That's correct as the ltering device is age and the
 person is less able to add to the collective thoughts or consciousness
 then nature terminates the collection of molecules that we call humans.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This theory may seem absurd, but it is just a theory and perhaps it t's
 more than we realise.
 Nature is very complex and extremely ecient, when you look and see that
 any action such as turning left instead of right at a junction could inuence
 a seemingly unrelated event on the other side of the world (chaos theory
 or the buttery eect) then you can begin to understand the hugely complex
 realm nature has created.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So back to the theory of thought.
 If nature is complex and we believe it is, it also must have a rule set
 which ensures that each part of nature obeys the purpose for which is was
 evolved or created to do.
 In this case then we see animals or plants that are ill formed, die and
 wither away to be absorbed into the collection of stuff that is our universe,
 only the be born again as something else.
 This is the ultimate recycling system.
 we also see severely injured organisms who fail to perform their roles
 as intended, also die out and get recycled.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As humans we have overcome some of these otherwise fatal events and have
 done so amazingly well, with medicines and suchlike.
 We do however live in this complex
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.3.
 NATURES FILTER
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
37
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
thing called earth that we do not understand or can comprehend.
 The question has to be that if we keep interfering with nature and bending
 these rules, without a complete understanding of the machine, what will
 be the outcomes? Will nature have an overall strategy to deal with this
 forced change of rules by one species, it very well may.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Again though if we consider a part of nature we have not been able to meddle
 with yet, thought or consciousness.
 The study of the computer or brain is staring to try and unravel some of
 these rules, but it is still at an extraordinary elementary stage at this
 time.
 We cannot understand much of the brain, although for years we talk of a
 right hand side, left hand side thinker, which is preposterous as we have
 no clue if left hand side of the brain can function as a logical side with
 the right hand side as the creative side.
 This is a silly meme we all take as true, even when the science world could
 tell us they do not know, for some reason we maintain a belief that we
 know this to be true.
 Startling actually!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As somebody once said If I have an apple and you have an apple then we have
 an apple each, if I give you mine there are still only two apples and I
 am left without, however if we have a thought each and share this then
 we each have two thoughts.
 I think that although this is true, there is more to it than we st see.
 The sharing of a thought between people is a very complex thing.
 If we imagine that there are thousands of thoughts each and every one of
 us has a dierent set of thoughts, then imagine each person thoughts as
 a circle (Venn diagram for all you maths people).
 Each circle contains all the thoughts of a single individual.
 Now imagine drawing this diagram, but this time show each persons shared
 thoughts.
 If we could freeze the thought transfer process and stop everyone thinking
 for a while this may be eventually possible, although we need a sentient
 being to create the drawing as any human would increase the complexity
 by merely thinking about drawing it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So we can see this Venn diagram would be extremely complex and ever changing.
 Now introduce the Internet and connect everyone to it, the diagram is now
 crazy and showing symptoms of Brownian type motion.
 We have seen this before, have we not?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is an example of entropy or as some have coined the phrase the arrow
 of time.
 As this diagram grows the complexity only gets more complex and never simpler.
 Here nature is doing it's wonderful job right in front of our eyes and
 we are not as aware of it as we should.
 This entropy is exponential, which means the increased shared knowledge
 is exponentially increasing (we do not really know the rate), so the question
 is, are we ready for what comes next ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So back to sharing that idea or thought.
 Now the questions is easier to formulate in our mind, who exactly are we
 sharing the thought with ? is it only the person we speak to, as he is
 connected to everyone else indirectly or is it a collective? I believe
 it is the latter, which brings a new and fresh approach to this question,
 or should I say answer.
 The answer is we are sharing it with ourselves, we are giving ourselves
 back the idea, but it's now measured, calculated, postulated and well formed
 and associated with all other ideas in this collective, of which we are
 all part.
 Whack or what ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So if this is what nature has created, then it must have a mechanism for
 ensuring the collective thoughts or consciousness are constantly updated
 and accurate.
 If
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
38
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 NATURE OF CONSCIOUSNESS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
we think back to the assumption that we learn errors and perpetuate them,
 then if nature is smart, it has a way of xing that situation.
 Again death performs an important role here.
 If we have educated a person with false knowledge (at earth folks), then
 it much easier to end that train of thought (kill o the person) and create
 a new person who will be taught the correct ways of working.
 That new person will then add to the collective thoughts and x the old
 mistakes, basically by introducing many new ideas on top of the new found
 approach he was created to achieve.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If this is indeed how nature works, and it seems very plausible, then it
 must have created us to add to this consciousness.
 So what about people who do not? This is where the contentious issue may
 lie, as we grow old or merely have been around for a while, then our early
 ideas will be old now and newer and better ideas are in play.
 We lose the ability to add to the collective, by dis association, we may
 get boring or perhaps reclusive, either way the collective is not gaining
 from us and if natures game is to create a consciousness, then we are not
 relevant any more.
 So nature builds in a protection mechanism and this is death and the journey
 to it.
 as we distance ourselves from the ability to add to the collective and
 interesting conversations, we become more depressed or less happy, this
 in turn starts to allow our bodies to begin decay and eventual extinction.
 This is a fantastic mechanism and as with many things in nature, it works
 exceptionally well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So death is required to continue the advancement of mankind or at least
 grow the collective consciousness.
 This may also explain why as we evolved we now live longer as we have better
 communications and mechanisms in place to allow continued addition of knowledge
 to the collective consciousness.
 If this is indeed the case then nature has again outsmarted us by a long
 way.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We may even learn this is true (remember this is a theory and not a law)
 and begin to accept this constant recycling is necessary and should be
 something we all understand and perhaps we can accept death for the natural
 process it is and maybe the young should be thanking the older people for
 dying, not mourning death and fearing it.
 It does make their job of using new knowledge and getting it accepted by
 the collective that much easier.
 We can see the reduction in racism, sexism and many other things require
 older generations to die o and a great thing that is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This also begs, another question and one which many people spend a lot of
 time pondering.
 Is there a way to prolong life ? I know when I was about seven or eight
 years old my grandfather died and I spent days wandering alone in the playgroun
d at School, thinking about this and realising I did not want to die.
 I still feel that way actually.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Imagine though if nature has in fact arranged death for the reasons mentioned
 above and we cheat.
 If we can continue to add new information then perhaps we are valuable
 and nature keeps us OK and alive.
 This would mean maintain the ability to be articulate, whether writing,
 speaking or inventing new stuff.
 It would also mean we learn a lesson that has so far eluded people and
 this is the lesson of complete humility and acceptance of new truths, the
 ability to accept new information and redo our understanding of what we
 previously believed to be true.
 Now this would not be simple, think of the Venn diagram again, extremely
 complex and indicative of the links of all the bits of knowledge we have
 when added to the collective, which as we know comes back to us in our
 thought process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.3.
 NATURES FILTER
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
39
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Is this possible? you may ask and I believe it is, although it's like infinity,
 it's a destination we never reach but can certainly journey towards it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CHAPTER 5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An Option For The Future
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.1.
 A blueprint
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
"Would it not be great to have an educated society?", yes ! of course we
 all agree.
 However there is a ma jor issue, and this is simply what is education ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This needs thought and clear thought devoid of prejudiced and entrenched
 views of what education is.
 This is difficult as we do have a view of education that's been taught
 and hammered home, successfully over years.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Like in life when we think every accountant can count, every lawyer knows
 the law we also believe that every lecturer knows best.
 To add to this there is a ton of people telling us so, from parents, politician
s and eventually employers who all seem to think we should have our worth
 measured in sub ject based certificates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our current education system is based on excellent ideals and foundations,
 however it is does fail so many people now with it's rigid approach and
 pigeon hole approach to identifying people and ability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.2.
 Dropouts and success of dropping out
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we study some of the worlds largest companies and look at the founders,
 whom we are either proud of or are very jealous of, they have generally
 one thing in common, they rarely completed University courses.
 They mostly did have to go to University to drop out though and again this
 is important.
 This shows a thirst for knowledge, but perhaps identies situations and
 circumstances where that was not being fullled, in many cases, talking
 to some people they were frankly bored in a lot of cases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.3.
 Industrialised Education
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the post industrial revolution, motivation for education increased substantia
lly.
 The good intent to provide global education was driven and accepted by
 the vast ma jority, after all an educated society has so much more to oer.
 It is a great thing to attempt, however mass education like this with children
 grouped by age and educated in a conveyor belt one size ts all system does
 have many weaknesses, as well as advantages.
 The ability to read, write and count is almost a minimum re- quirement
 for today's society.
 Mass education of this kind is arguably a good thing, but it is a core
 skill, like walking we still need to teach talking, jumping and running
 and we will all do this with varying degrees of ability skill and determination
, as it should be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
41
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
42
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.
 AN OPTION FOR THE FUTURE
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.4.
 So what is a qualication ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We often hear statements like, "you're not qualied to talk about that!",
 and we are presented with 'expert' opinion from people who are qualied.
 The interesting point is that very rarely does a certicate get produced
 showing a degree or similar in a sub ject and this is alone accepted as
 making somebody, qualied to discuss an important issue.
 For instance there would not be many expert witnesses in a court that are
 there simply because they hold a certicate from some University or College!
 It is nearly always experience in that eld that counts, experience is important
, the willingness to do something cause you like it.
 We will come back to that I think.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is an example of a situation where we as people twist our knowledge
 and belief structure in a manner that hides what we really know.
 A paper based qualication does not make one qualied, so why do we refer
 to these things as qualications ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So a certicate is a very rough measure of capability in a very specialised
 and rigidly applied curriculum.
 What value is there in such a thing ? Arguably lots if we can consider
 it from a certain angle and ignore the important stuff.
 For example a degree in art from one college may show a person is good
 at art, but what kind of art? what was the basis for this certicate being
 relevant to an employer looking for somebody versed in art ? For these
 reasons the certicate is a very rough guide and potentially also a very
 poor indicator of what the content of the course involved.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the mechanical and baseline education such as basic maths, writing,
 reading and arguably drama, languages, art etc.
 then a certicate can show there is elementary ability in an easy for us
 all to understand syllabus.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.5.
 What is a certicate
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We believe a certicate is the golden eece whilst we study very hard to attain
 it.
 During a course that is laid out for us we force ourselves to stay awake
 in lessons we have no interest in, but are deemed part of the course by
 the system.
 A certicate is an approximation of a degree of capability in a wide ranging
 course.
 Advanced courses do specialise in part, although these parts are managed
 by others who have also been sub jected to this system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Employers take less interest in certificates, people are less interested
 in certificates.
 The meaning of certificates has reduced in stature over the post-industrial
 years and this should be no surprise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.6.
 The Option
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To redress the balance of the education system a University that encourages
 learn- ing, teaching and most importantly the growth of knowledge as opposed
 to the transfer alone will require to be created.
 Transferring knowledge in a class where teachers teach and students listen
 has logically to reduce and water down the to- tality of knowledge available
 whilst ignoring the potential of the students.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the fact that people, as with any known thing in nature, will pay
 attention to what they are interested in and shun what they are not.
 It makes sense to allow them to levitate to interesting things, this will
 encourage learning and passing of
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.6.
 THE OPTION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
43
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
information to and for.
 It would appear very logical to provide a system where people with a thirst
 for knowledge can nd it and nd it when they wish, easily, simply and immediatel
y.
 This is a lot simpler than one can imagine.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CHAPTER 6
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The new University
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.1.
 Entrance Qualications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This University will not not require any entrance certificates or qualications.
 In- stead it will provide free to attend classes on several sub jects,
 all sub ject given by interested teachers.
 These teachers act as leaders of conversations rather than lecturing continuall
y.
 Free debates, challenges and actual two way growth of knowl- edge in many
 sub jects.
 No overall keeper of any faith or ego driven megalomaniac, instead a yearning
 for more, satised in every class to varying degrees.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.2.
 Exit certificates
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As we have already seen, exit certificates are very general and vague.
 What employ- ers require is people who work in jobs they would love to
 do, given the opportunity.
 The intent here is to provide those people and at the same time that opportunit
y.
 At any time a student should be able to print o his or her attendance at
 classes as a means of proof of thirst for knowledge in a sub ject range.
 For instance an Engineering student may show great interest in physics,
 mathematics and certain forms of Engineering, not generally but specically
 and related to the job being applied for if all is well.
 In this case is may be aeronautical Engineering and associ- ated classes
 that would allow the Employer to see exactly where this new Engineer would
 t.
 It may be a company or museum or dance troupe looking for people with dierent
 skills altogether and again an inspection of the classes attended will
 show desire and dedication to the task at hand.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
now people will think, yes all very good but what if the person attended
 the classes just to get a job with high pay or get into that dance troupe?
 Attending does not measure ability, but does it not! remember the basis
 of this philosophy, people are drawn to what they are interested in and
 shun what they are not.
 It would be very unusual indeed form somebody to show interest in areas
 they have no ability, it makes no sense at all.
 The longer the student spends then it should be easy to assume there is
 ability.
 In fact this would be easily proven at an interview or trial period of
 employment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This model shows no requirement for the existence of certificates and in
 fact such certificates would undermine any measure of both ability and
 more importantly desire.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
45
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
46
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.
 THE NEW UNIVERSITY
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.3.
 Funding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Unfortunately we live in a world with opposing driving forces, short term
 govern- ments and an economy.
 The latter means we need to show prot and the former means this prot has
 to be measurable and fast.
 This does not bode well for educa- tion and in fact shows why the system
 is so industrially focused with mass conveyor belt education machines being
 forced upon us all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
People see certificates as a way out, a route to money and success, unfortunatel
y if we were better educated as a while we may realise this process is awed
 at the very core.
 We must provide a system of education that grows knowledge and that is
 the foundation we cannot alter, although the short term government system
 will oppose such ideals as not being in line with industry requirements.
 This is a mountain to climb and climb it we must.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So to fund such a venture will require a very focused and determined eort
 with little regard for immediate measurements.
 We hear of the arrow of time and increasing entropy, then how can we measure
 future success, simply we cannot.
 We must put our faith in nature once more.
 It has made us what we are and also made us interested in what we are intereste
d in individually.
 we should not ght this as we have done in recent years.
 It is the largest and most destructive war the human race has fought so
 far.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we really want to create peace and life saving inventions, then we must
 let the quest for knowledge be fullled.
 We must also allow the creativity of children to last and grow naturally
 as it will given the chance.
 To do this a stand may have to be taken.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The way education should be funded is that on attending a class, a person
 receives a monetary payment.
 The more classes the more payment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This seems like heresy in today's world.
 We all think that this will mean people will just go and learn for money.
 Well so what if they did! although would you sit though a quantum cryptography
 class for several hours every week or day for years for a few pounds, I
 think not, well not unless you loved it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this manner perhaps children who shun today's system as elitist or out
 of reach would initially think there is money in this, then on attending
 start to learn.
 In learning they will nd it's not elitist and they are capable of learning
 and enjoying it, given the range of sub jects they can try and see what
 they like.
 No pressure or forcing, no stick and no real carrot of any signicance,
 purely a chance to self develop in the route nature has best made you t
 for the sake of us all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.4.
 Graduates
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On passing through this university people should have touched something
 special.
 This is the self belief and understanding of differing views and realisation
 of the immense amount of unknown information still to be understood.
 Importantly they should realise that everyone is special and important.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I would hope that students also realise they never qualify, by that I mean
 there is no destination on the route to knowledge it is an never ending
 journey and hopefully lasts a whole life.
 The longer the better and regardless of actually gaining something
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.4.
 GRADUATES
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
47
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
measurable like a job from it they will pass on this understanding to others,
 perhaps people who do not even attend.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These people will also be an important funding source for the university
 with these alumni hopefully volunteering assistance back to the university
 both n terms of lecturing, mixing with students and improving understanding
 as well as nancially assisting through donations where they are gainfully
 employed, hopefully doing jobs they love and are suited to.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
